# wrapper_scripts
This repository houses wrapper scripts for various Bioinformatics workflows.

## Viralrecon wrapper

The viralrecon wrapper produces a summary output file containing other informative output metrics in addition to the output metrics generated by [nf-core viralrecon](https://github.com/nf-core/viralrecon). The viralrecon wrapper script is run as a [Nextflow Tower](https://tower.nf/) post-run script that automatically runs after the completion of viralrecon run over Nextflow Tower. The script was tested using viralrecon version 2.4.1.

### Requirements

The requirements to run the viralrecon wrapper script as a post-run script on Nextflow Tower are as follows:

+ **Monochrome logs** must be toggled to ON in the 'Generic options' table when entering launch settings and parameters. Stripping text of the ANSI color codes has not yet been implemented.

+ A bash script that installs the dependencies needed for the wrapper script (eg. pysam, pandas, boto3, etc.) and runs the wrapper script. This bash script gets copied into the Nextflow Tower post-run environment and is required mostly because of character limits in said field.

### Running the viralrecon wrapper script over Nextflow Tower

The viralrecon wrapper is simply a python script that appends additional data metrics to the viralrecon output file 'summary_variants_metrics_mqc.csv'. This python script, as well as the bash script that installs the dependecies in the post-run environment and runs the python script, are copied from an AWS S3 bucket to the post-run environment using commands from the [AWS CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/). It is important to know the S3 bucket URI where these scripts are and change the URI accordingly.


1. Choose the viralrecon workflow in the Nextflow Tower launchpad.
2. Select/enter in all desired parameters.
3. Click on "Show hidden params" on the sidebar and in "Generic options", toggle 'monochrome_logs' to ON.
4. On the same sidebar, click on "Launch settings".
5. In 'Advanced options' in the 'Post-run script' field, enter the following:
```
        echo "--- Starting post-run script ---"

        pr_copy_cmd="aws s3 cp s3://dev-wslh-sequencing-analyses/scripts/viralrecon_wrapper_postrun.sh ."
        echo "Copying bash script to post-run environment with command: '$pr_copy_cmd'.."
        $pr_copy_cmd

        run_script="bash viralrecon_wrapper_postrun.sh"
        echo "Running post-run script with command: '$run_script'"
        $run_script
```
6. Launch the workflow by clicking "Launch".

### Output

The output of the wrapper script is a csv file: 'viralrecon_wrapper_report.csv'. It is the 'summary_variants_metrics_mqc.csv' output file from the viralrecon workflow with additional output metrics as columns appended to the table. The wrapper script creates a new directory 'wrapper_reports' and copies this file to this directory.


## Authors
Dustin Lyfoung
